What do you understand by Virtual DOM? Explain its working.
ans:in react when component mounting a real dom is created .
along with real dom two  virtual doms also created ,
in this one is exactly copy of real dom and 
when we want to update a state or props for that
we click any button that changes are done in
another v.dom so these two v.doms compared with each other 
this is called diffing algorithm.then that changes updated in real dom 
this total process is called recoincilation 



Why can’t browsers read JSX?
because browser read only es5 javascript but jsx is a es6 so it cant 
understand thats why we use babel that is a transcompiler which converts advance js to pure js


What is the purpose of render() in React.
in react 2 types of components are present functional and class.
in functional componemt the whole component itself responsible for mounting phase 
but in class render only responsible for mounting
Differentiate between states and props.
states and props are used for data flow
states are smart components because state get updated dynamically
but props are dumb they are only static
in state data pass in that component only, but props data flow through parents





How can you update the state of a component?
we can update the state in class component by setstate method using any function
but in function component we use an usestate hook



Explain the lifecycle methods of React components in detail.
in react 3 methods are there they are mounting,updating,unmounting.
mounting:when an instance that dom get created first time 
in this 3 phases are there constructor ,render,componentdidmount
updating:when ever we click button or navbar like that the componenet re-render that is updating phase 
in this mainly used 2 phases they are render,componentdidupdate
unmounting:when ever componenet did die or component will remove from dom 
in this only phase componentwillunmount is present it invoke immediately after removing component
